you guys know I come out of a formal
political science background what you
may not know is that I have nothing but
contempt for this entire generation of
people who are in formal political
science and you hear them on the news
sometimes sometimes I just heard a
podcast interviewing a guy who published
a book and he's one of these formal
political scientists who now works in a
think tank in Washington DC where he
advocates for a brighter future for
America for political reform and like
you think you think that will be
interesting to me right Wow we're
forming the political institutions to
have a better more democratic future in
America and you know why it's not
interesting because there are no new
ideas like the paucity the lack of new
ideas in politics during my lifetime and
I would say especially in the last 20
years I can say the silence is deafening
so cut Melissa on the phone here and the
really the one thing I wanted to say and
we'll see if Melissa has anything to say
back and you know what again when you're
talking about a lack of ideas maybe
Melissa is not gonna have a lot to say
maybe you in the audience in our can
have a lot to say we'll just sit here in
silence for 30 seconds with an end of
video I don't mind like you can talk
about ideas talking about a lack of
ideas harder to do I understand my
fundamental observation or problem is
this the distinction between left and
right has become a referendum on the
generosity of the state on how generous
government should be with really no
meaningful discussion even about what to
do with that money with that generosity
with those programs so you guys have
already heard me say this Bernie Sanders
looks at the prison system and just says
we should have the same system but be
more generous and the Conservatives
I mean I'm gonna stereotype here because
we're not talking about any one
conservative leader they look at the
prison system and they want to stay the
same but they want to save money they
want to spend less money
maybe privatize more maybe you have more
free market mechanism they want to save
taxpayers money but on both sides there
were no new ideas and there really isn't
even like an empty space for questioning
wait maybe we should have a
fundamentally new approach to prisons
and you've heard me say this about
universities Bernie Sanders looks at the
university system and says we'll keep it
the way it is but we'll be more generous
and this is I see this is fundamentally
conservative it's conservative but
generous and meanwhile the actual
conservatives are the right-wingers they
look at the same system and again
there's there were no new ideas maybe
they want to keep it exactly the same
just traditionalism or they want to save
money one of the other but there there
are no new ideas again when I go across
the board through every sector of life
through every area of government policy
you could even include something like
religion and this you know what is the
role of religion in our society I think
that this kind of budgetary approach to
what government is where the difference
between left and right just becomes a
referendum on generosity it's it's not
it's not merely a lack of new ideas but
a lack of even pausing to question wait
what if what if what we do in the future
with our universities what if what we do
in the future with our prisons is
fundamentally different from what we've
done in the past what if it's
fundamentally different we do now what
if the solution isn't something we
already all know and understand what if
it isn't as simple as imitating what
England or Denmark or Japan or or doing
what if we actually have to think of
something new or try something new that
seems to have have dropped out of the
kind of procedure of thinking about
politics and I can say honestly you know
in my lifetime I'm now I'm now 41 years
old okay Melissa again look I'm sorry if
you got nothing to say
fine if you got everything to say fine
if you want to disagree with me by all
means go ahead
but that's something that's kind of been
weighing me down the last the last few
weeks and months especially the
difference between the left and right
basically is the difference of how
generous the government is the other
week I listen to the State of the Union
address from Donald Trump and all the
Republicans and you know in the audience
applauded and you know cheered when he
said that ten million people have been
taken off of food stamps so not because
they're rich they've been taken up in
food stamps and not because they're so
wealthy they don't eat didn't say that
it's a pretty good representation of how
the Republicans generally seem to view
helping the poor helping the poor is to
get them jobs to get them employed so
yeah you have a bread Bernie Sanders
book but I didn't actually read his book
I probably agree with you that it seems
that Bernie Sanders idea is to just
become more generous and to you know
direct more money towards all these
programs I mean that of course gets
people asking you know where is the
money gonna come from and of course most
of the time it's Oh take ticket from the
wealthy take it from Wall Street and you
know it really does hit wealthy against
the poor right right and so and so also
does aoc Alexandra Ocasio Carter's i
just mentioned cuz bernie sanders is a
very old man alexandria is young but it
actually is the same problem like i
don't think her policies are any
different for bernie sanders in this
respect yeah all right so someone being
wealthy doesn't by default make them
evil okay so I'm gonna jump in I'm gonna
take advantage of this momentary silence
in your in your thoughts look I'm gonna
give two examples
that are totally profoundly different
but totally profoundly prove the same
point okay
racism no two examples I had - all right
so we'll talk about racism for just a
moment or the other one would come to me
uh the United States of America and I
don't I don't really even mean this in a
provocative way it was built for a kind
of openly racist purpose and that the
first and most profound form of racism
wasn't even slavery but it was genocide
it was the enslavement and extinction of
the native peoples and taken away so
there was an openly racist purpose that
the United States of America existed for
wait I remember the second one who
they're totally different okay why would
the future of the United States of
America and its form of government its
system of democracy or any element why
would any of our institutions in the
future preserve the traditions of the
past just in this one respect if you
just think of the the challenge
presented by racism and the tradition
the transition to a society that is in
if not post racist at least it doesn't
actively believe in and pursue this kind
of genocide and enslavement right I mean
you know the point is yeah things are
not perfect now but I heard a great
anecdote the other day about one of the
more sanguine leaders in the u.s. civil
war and he so he was a military
commander in the American Civil War and
he literally published his own magazine
that was called the white man and in
this magazine he actively promoted the
idea that what America was all about and
what it needed to prioritize was
murdering the native people and
enslaving the blacks and you know there
was a civil war he got to prove that he
he didn't just believe these things on
paper okay so look yeah when you ask
like when I ask a simple question with
like what is a university and what is
the function and shape these things in
society I am NOT pandering to a woke
left-wing audience when I say this why
would these two
of the future resemble the traditions of
the past and the second example sorry I
didn't say this up front is just
technology right and there's a sense in
which we want to pretend technology is
shallow like Instagram isn't that
different from a camera and it is you
know okay but given just these two
factors totally transformative power of
technology totally transformative change
in attitudes towards ethnicity and
slavery and religion and and the rights
of the individual and so on okay so why
does a university look the way it does
anymore
why is a university built around a
cathedral and a statue of a white man on
a horse who was himself a slave owner
and participated in that genocide and
the whole function of the university and
wasting tens of thousands of dollars and
you know a football stadium and so on
and so forth there's there's this
obvious sense in which the university
could resemble Instagram obviously they
get a bit far the university could
resemble YouTube and I'm not someone
who's saying we need to demolish all the
classrooms I'm not I've made my thoughts
and it's clear but even if you're just
raising it in this broadest sense
okay well technology has transformative
powers and you know the the abandonment
of the old racist raison d'tre for the
nation-state as a whole as this sort of
transformation shouldn't we be asking
fundamentally new questions about
politics and coming up with and at least
trying new ideas for for institutions
should you know innovation is completely
alien to both the concept of generosity
and the concept of saving taxpayers
dollars like the left-wing approach
which is the left-wing approach presumes
we already know the solution we already
know the answers we had Bernie Sanders
today saying he's just gonna dump more
money on Howard University and the
historically black colleges
what a joke his vision of the future of
education is to preserve racial
segregation this echo this leftover
aspect of the history of racial
segregation those colleges were created
because black people were not
two white colleges and when they were
let in they were treated really badly so
you you just want to dump more money on
what everyone actually admits if you
read about is a really poorly
functioning and really bad value for
money for these students it's a ripoff
the historically black colleges by the
way there's another interesting story
look that's so both are conservative
what should one side wants to just
preserve tradition with more money and
one wants to preserve the tradition at a
lower cost and they're both wrong
because they both exclude innovation
thanks babe go if you pledge some that
Bernie Sanders part of his Medicare for
all plan is to lower the wages for
nurses and doctors he doesn't admit that
so I've raised that that issue
provocatively but yes go on yeah I think
part of restructuring the education
system is admitting that we're going to
have to pay professors less money yes
and if you look at the university that I
went to University of Michigan you can
see the wages of all the professors it's
publicly available and it is rather
impressive how much the professors are
that isn't taking into account the
people who are adjunct professors of
course yes you know earning full-time
wages a lot of people are part-time in
in education system now in the
university education system so yeah I
was just kind of thinking you know the
different universities that you've been
to universities around the world you've
been to universities I think in Cambodia
and you know you've been to the
universities in England even you have
experienced this in China you will
remember most of the university
professors also owned restaurants or
other small businesses because they you
know for for you the wages that you were
earning were actually like maybe 1000
equai more yes other professors who is
right there for years I was one of the
most highly paid professors but if not
it's not the most hourly paid that
university I was one of them yeah right
but that was I mean there were
manufacturers for us leaving China but
that was when one of them
but for you it wasn't enough to justify
the costs of you know traveling
internationally to see your daughter
twice a year like it it just wasn't
enough it compared to like Western
Standard of money you know it's a good
standard of living in China you know
what you're earning was was good but
many of the professor's had sidekicks
the professor the boss that I had was a
professor at the University of she would
also had an English school that she did
outside
so yeah I just say I mean like part of
maybe you know restructuring education
is realizing that well even though you
paid tens of thousands of dollars to get
your PhD you weren't gonna be earning
that much money and also the president's
at the universities yes
it's insane yeah university presidents
earning yeah insane and Sam was right
okay okay yeah the heads of the
university were earning so much money
and like so much was being devoted to
football and you know you've you've
mentioned this recently in other videos
so so yes I think fundamentally I agree
with you that you know there needs to be
restructuring there needs to be
reimagine a ssin of what university is
okay so completely completely agree with
you but I think it's really good you
raise this because it's a segue to the
other issue ahead on my mind is when I
was walking home before I turn on the
camera here and that is that I don't
think anyone on the left or the right is
actually interested in reducing
inequality alright now again what about
innovation what about new ideas in
today's dollars I had someone asked me
about this recently
you know partly because of the specter
of both Donald Trump and Bloomberg Mike
Bloomberg these are people with billions
of dollars in Bloomberg's case really
try to look at a quantitative estimate
of how much money
got it's it's unbelievable and you know
people have sometimes asked me do I
think billionaires should exist okay
well I'm more radical and more extreme
than anyone on the left if you ask me
what I think all right I don't think
anyone should earn more than $200,000 a
year all right
and Wow the other caught the other
context this came up in you guys may not
remember I had a kind of frenemy here on
YouTube I used to do videos with called
Maude vegan and she was one of these
people like Andrew yang Andrew yang see
that's funny I'm recording this now in
2020 everyone knows who Andrew yang is
do you think anyone will remember the
name Andrew yang at the year 2025 I
don't know but Maude vegan like Andrew
yang she scare mongering about robots a
little bit and I've always said this I
remember saying this to my own mother
recently know the fundamental engine of
social inequality is the apartment
building or is the condominium tower and
that's why Donald Trump's that's what
Donald Trump never ran out of money even
though we kept going bankrupt because
his father owns apartment buildings
there is no way you have a point
there is no way a robot assembly line
competes with the unbelievable financial
impact of having society divided into
two classes of men there are those who
pay rent and there are those who get
rich collecting the rent and it doesn't
matter the people who pay rent even if
they are wealthy even if they're
comfortable if you have an apartment
building and every single resident is a
dentist earning a good living still the
landlord collecting the rent is becoming
fantastically wealthy and soon enough he
has enough money to buy another
apartment building and another and
another okay this one factor alone which
by the way is recognized in Aristotle
and not by Karl Marx Karl Marx it's
amazing when stupid guy in a lot of
obvious ways but you know this was not
dealt with by Marx but it was dealt with
by Aristotle already okay
this leads to a fundamental problem that
is more than one possible solution and
you know what if you have a maximum way
which yes I agree with you I think it
should be ruthlessly enforced on medical
doctors ruthlessly enforced on
university professors and university
presidents okay when you have a maximum
income a maximum wage it changes human
behavior many ways if you're a professor
and you can't earn more than a hundred
thousand dollars or two hundred thousand
is gonna be you were gonna direct your
time and energy into things other than
money you know into things other than
milking the system for as much as I can
because that's all you can milk so maybe
that's gonna go into caring about your
students more writing books more or
maybe you're gonna run a vegan
restaurant in your spare time I don't
know you're gonna find other things to
put your passions into when you have a
maximum if you're gonna take up painting
or spend more time with your children
you're gonna do something else if you as
a landlord have a maximum income and a
maximum value of the land you can own
and so on if you can only own one
apartment building let's just say that's
the limit you are going to put more care
and energy into doing the best you can
with that one apartment building as
opposed to building a huge Empire of
apartment buildings all right so without
going into more examples my point is
that having a maximum wage having
maximum limits on land ownership
property ownership this isn't just good
for the poor and I don't even believe in
it being good for the abstract concept
of equality it's actually good for the
rich themselves it's actually good for
the millionaires it's good for the
billionaires not to exist and I think it
actually is so much more meaningful life
again sorry just to fill it in with a
surgeon as opposed to a surgeon trying
to earn as much money as possible let's
say doing plastic surgery it's like okay
we'll look this is the maximum amount
you can earn so now you can re-evaluate
your priorities but maybe each year once
you get that once you hit that maximum
doing a certain number of nose jobs and
boob jobs maybe now maybe now you start
to care for the poor maybe now say okay
I'm going to go on vacation to Ethiopia
and maybe do some medical practice in
Ethiopia because I've already done my
boob jobs with ear you know for real
we're tired that's we're talking about
the rich
more meaningful lives were not just
talking about helping the poor you want
yes look I'm like you so it's hard for
me to disagree it might be more
interesting for you and I but she's
never talked to me about this poor it's
we it's interesting we agree but I say
this stuff she could describe we haven't
done we have a lot in common but go on
I'm not motivated by money but I I
recognize that a huge percent of the
population is motivated by earning money
and you know somebody on the right might
think if you cap the wage potential at
$200,000 that would descent off' eyes
people from from really you know going
hard and trying to earn a million
dollars from and you know people might
say that that's not good that people
don't have these empires or you know
like like the example that you used a
landlord who only is able to own one
apartment building it's going to put a
lot of effort into that ring as opposed
to like you know buying other properties
so that they can make more rents you
know make more money off of people
paying rent you know that this this just
this it incentivizes growth this leads
to less growth which of course is you
know what what the right tends to think
of as you know improved economy is if if
more more buildings are being built but
but but of course that that's your
correct some people would make that
argument but it's a false argument
because the reality is you would have
the same number of apartment buildings
but with a larger number of landlords
they would be owned by more people so
like each building would have one owner
and with a very large building it might
be divided where there are two different
owners one for the apartments on the
east side and one for departments the
west side because the apartment
buildings too big or something but no
you would just have more landlords
responsible and each each landlord would
be responsible for a small enough amount
of land that he or she could really
take care of it as opposed to being an
absentee landlord going in right it
would have to be a you know for the
amount that it would cost to buy these
huge you know laws these huge apartment
buildings you you would have to have
many people if the if the limit is two
hundred thousand dollars like you would
need to have people like if there are no
billionaires to invest in a big property
like this you need more than more
investors you might be able to get away
with if you're if you're wrong but but
babe again sorry so you know people who
raise this objection it's always naive
because billionaires don't gamble with
their own money all they do is co-sign a
bank loan so a billionaire so let's say
I wanted to open a Starbucks it's a real
example real quick if I were going to
open a Starbucks which I'm completely
qualified to do by the way I go to a
friend of mine who's a billionaire and
ask him to invest the money so I can
open up let's let's say it's a unique
coffee it's called a vegan bucks let's
just take the other corporation out of
it I want to open a coffee shop and I
have a friend of civilian air he is all
he is gonna do is go to the bank and
sign a guarantee in theory he might put
down ten thousand dollars or something
to indicate his seriousness in backing
me but most time and all that meat and
then the bank provides me with the money
and I pay the money to the bank so that
that's really what goes on amazingly
even with property investment even when
it's buying a house or what have you the
people who have billions of dollars they
don't really dip into there they don't
dip into their non liquid assets they
just act as guarantor x' for banks and
other sources investment and within our
lifetimes the banks have been desperate
for that type of investment to put into
so in some other parallel universes some
other period of history that might not
be true but in this era of history no
it's it's all really the money the money
does basically flow from the banks yeah
yeah right a couple different things I
wanted to say just on the topic of you
know landlords having this infinite
source of income because of rent yes I
actually just was thinking about it you
know university is also play into the
system because if there's housing
you know like I lived in student housing
my first year at University the amount
that gets paid in for your housing is
also you know kind of incredible kind of
astronomical Maseca near I decided to
live in an apartment because it cost
less money to like share a two-bedroom
apartment off-campus than to live on
campus and Aaron's not like these places
are real nice like I was kind of living
in a crummy dorm room and yeah so I just
say University is also or kind of part
of that that they have this unlimited
source of income every year because of
the students that live on campus and
they try to sell it as this experience
like oh you get to live on campus you
get to be you know close to the
libraries close to your classes
as it's kind of be asked to like there
was um like um on-campus housing but it
was like on a different unit you know
you had to take a bus to get downtown to
get to your classes everyday like the
release campus there was a different
campus that house you know thousands of
students so yeah it's you know you sell
it as this experience that you're
getting the college experience you're
living in a dorm yeah so well you know
so look I don't want to get too much
into the unique politics of eyes'll
Mazar because the more unique they are
the more they relevant they're in
violence but melissa has heard me say
this many times that one of the ways in
which governments become corrupt is just
the assumption that it's their job to
boost up property values higher and
higher and this includes having a
university in the center of the city
surrounded by glass towers if you want
to provide education to people on a
cost-effective basis Canada is full of
ghost towns we had one while I was there
it had just become a ghost town because
like the only the only company had shut
down the company was a tree tree
planting it was a government-led
reforest rican cern you know okay if you
want to you can take the whole medical
science department from University of
Toronto and move it into this ghost town
and everyone can live in a hut or
everyone can own their own house at one
percent of the price of living in
downtown Toronto right absolutely you
can reduce the cost of living and
provide education
lower price just by taking the
universities you know department by
department out of Paris out of Berlin
out of Toronto out of you know New York
City that the enormous cost this is
without even getting socialist about so
I just say if the government's agenda is
actually to provide housing in a
cost-effective way
that is going to include forms of urban
planning that are directly contrary to
the impulse of trying to at all times
elevate and escalate property values so
that government can collect more taxes
on those properties yeah yeah make a jab
because like here's your mistake that
you know you think it's about providing
cheap housing or you think that it's
really about education right you think
that education university is really
about education when it's not you know
like it's it's about having this college
experience where you know wait you see
in those crappy Hollywood movies like
you know it's your first first year away
from your parents and you're gonna get
drunk every weekend and get laid and you
know it's that's what they're saying
that's what they're selling the college
experience so you're gonna go to
football games every Saturday and be
there for the team you know be in this
cheering crowd well and let's listen the
tragedy the case the case that you were
just trying to improve medical education
you know I get to see this on the campus
in that you worked at in China that
campus was not designed for it was a
beautiful campus it was nice but it
wasn't designed for sports teams it was
it was designed for learning you know
the the students were all like on this
campus they lived on the campus and they
walked to the classes came home and you
know their dorms were right there right
next to the closet yeah I mean it's
efficient and it's a way for you to
learn all you need is a chalkboard
people I've I've worked as a teacher in
places where there was no electricity I
had a chalkboard and a candle I've done
that yes so I'm just saying what you
need is a chalkboard and shelter from
the rain to provide education but look
so baby I'll wrap up this video now but
I mean let's just let's just know
that you know prisons and universities
have in common that they divide they
define what people will do for the rest
of their lives like I wish I could
pretend that talked about prisons and
universities was merely a convenient
example but it's tragic I mean it's real
sorry I mean you know Melissa if you
even think about your own friends we're
not gonna get into you know examples but
you know people most people there
there's one chance to study and you know
maybe they end up in debt for the rest
of the lives no they have this one
chance you know to you know to become
something to become someone that's what
we say this in English right you become
a job you know when I was a child I
think now this is illegal schoolteachers
you still used to say to children what
do you want to be a garbage man like it
you know if kids weren't studying do you
do you want to be a girl because that's
who you are
right if that's the job you have if
that's the level of education you have
you are or a garbage man you know today
we'd say sanitation worker but you know
this this sense of identity and purpose
and place there really is a profound
economic function there's a profound
function in terms of preparing you to
actually participate in democracy
there's a profound political function if
there's a sense in which I would say
both high schools and universities and
yes also prisons have this awesome
significance in shaping what people do
at least for the next ten years after
they they finished school if not for the
whole rest of their lives
so that's something the political
establishment the political elite and
the whole Democratic you know
infrastructure of society ought to be
obsessed over we ought to care
passionately about it and we ought to be
innovating you know we can't just look
back at what Cambridge University used
to be centuries ago
we can't look back at what Harvard was
you know a hundred years ago on a really
deep level that makes no sense it's an
incoherent answer or it's an answer to
the wrong question for what the future
of these institutions will be with the
future in our society or debar soup
and look sorry it's the only other big
issue we talked about here I feel the
same way about inequality if we're
talking about rich and poor and property
ownership and paying rent there's a
there's a fundamental question here that
Aristotle already asked more than two
thousand years ago and that we've been
refusing to ask I think in in the last
50 years
any final thoughts been excuse me yeah
you know I was
I'm sorry if I ranted too much about
University no look the one thing that I
wanted to talk about was just the role
that getting rich has in America you
know I'm not I don't think that it is
just unique to America but in America I
just noticed as I was watching the Super
Bowl there was this quite touching
commercial where someone who was a pro
football player was in the commercial
and he was riding past the old field
that he used to play on when he was a
kid
and he said like you know I wish I could
talk to that kid now and tell him that
you know one day you're gonna make it
one day you're gonna you know basically
be famous and earn a lot of money just
for throwing around a ball I mean I'm
sorry to simplify I know a lot goes into
it a lot of training a lot of like you
know thousands of hours of practice but
that is the way to get rich that is the
way to get notoriety in America and to
me that's really sad and yeah I mean it
does typically like it does for me
fundamentally get down to the meaning of
life like what is you know what are you
gonna do with your time on this earth
with this limited time that you have
here I don't think that the answer is to
just get rich and yeah yeah I mean I I
that's why I mean that's why I like I
like Bernie Sanders campaign you know
it's for the he's really for the
working-class you you like to think that
like you know he's working for you but
and I think he's probably doing what he
can I mean this is what he's been saying
the last 30 years like he's really been
about this you know helping the middle
class just by pouring money into these
different ideas if it's Medicare for all
free education and cancel student that
you know all these things that are just
you know
let's put money on the problem and it'll
fix it but ya know I agree with you I
think you know it we need some
fundamental reimagine ation reimagining
the situation and how to how to solve
that yeah you know I just say I think
that classism you know some meaning here
really the hatred for the poor contempt
for the poor it's comforting to people
in the same way that racism used to be
like still today I mean if you can if
you actually really think that people
from other cultures and other races
don't have intellectual potential then
you don't agonize about you don't regret
the fact that perhaps poverty war or
even something as simple as an
earthquake is preventing them from
leading meaningful lives and I think
it's very very hard for people if
they've grown up racist to really
recognize and face up to the fact like
no people who are born black or born
Arab they really do have as much
intellectual potential as white people
and then it really is a tragedy when for
example on the island of Haiti that was
poor to begin with an earthquake makes
life you know really impossible for
everyone for decades thereafter you know
Haiti Haiti was really wiped out by a
very very bad earthquake and again they
were poor to begin with so you know but
no but these people they really do have
the same intellectual potential if only
they could go to a university and also
have you know protection from mosquitos
and you know decent decent places to
look that's so as you say it's a it's a
deeper tragedy you know the one sense in
which I'm a little bit bizarre is I have
I have almost a reverse classism because
I've got to tell you I think poor people
have more intellectual potential than
the rich you know yeah I think there's a
real problem that people like Kim
Kardashian grow up stupid because
they're rich I think there's a deadening
of the instincts and a deadening of
curiosity and there's a great loss of
intellectual potential because of what
growing up wealthy means today and now
that that probably wasn't true when
Aristotle lived just because rich people
they probably still had very hard lives
they were still fundamentally working on
a farmer and serving in the army
but to me the Kim Kardashian factor is
real and it runs deep and that that
makes this tragedy this this question of
providing the poor with with you know
the means to lead a meaningful life and
develop to develop themselves
intellectually and to participate in
democracy in a meaningful way that that
makes it you know all the more important
okay babe work we passed our 30 minutes
so I'm gonna stop there okay